# mpv-concat

Suppose you have a file called `concat.txt` with the following content:

	# This is a comment
	file 'video.webm'
	inpoint 00:03:02.57
	outpoint 00:10:37.44
	
	# This is another comment
	file 'video.webm'
	inpoint 00:14:53.89
	outpoint 00:23:29.26
	
	# This is another comment
	file 'video.webm'
	inpoint 00:25:32.67
	outpoint 00:32:21.28

This file specifies video segments, based on their filenames,
start-point and end-points, to be concatenated in a final video
with the following command.

	$ ffmpeg -f concat -i concat.txt -c copy out.webm

mpv-concat helps the creation of such a file.  With mpv-concat you can
interactively select segments of videos from your mpv video player.


## Usage

If a file named `concat.txt` exists in the current working directory, it
is read by this script and video segments are get from it, as specified
by [ffmpeg-formats(1)](https://ffmpeg.org/ffmpeg-formats.html#concat).
After opening a video file with mpv, you can create more video segments
in addition to the ones read from `concat.txt`.  Then, after writing the
segments to disk, a new `concat.txt` file is created in the directory
the mpv command was ran.

**Set time.**
In the video screen, press `Ctrl + T` to grab the first timestamp and
then press `Ctrl + T` again to get the second timestamp. This process
will generate a time range, which represents a video segment.  Repeat
this process to create more segments.

**Show segments.**
To see all the segments made so far, press `Ctrl + S`.  All segments will
appear in the terminal in order of creation, with their corresponding
timestamps.  Incomplete segments will show up as “Segment N in progress”,
where N is the segment number.

**Reset segment.**
To reset an incomplet segment, press `Ctrl + R`.  If the first part of
a segment was created at the wrong time, this will reset the current
segment.

**Delete segment.**
To delete a whole segment, start the segment deletion mode by pressing
`Ctrl + D`.  When in this mode, it's possible to press `Ctrl + NUM`,
where NUM is any number between 0 inclusive and 9 inclusive.  For each
`Ctrl + NUM` pressed, a number will be concatenated to make the final
number referring to the segment to be removed, then press `Ctrl + D`
again to stop the segment deletion mode and delete the segment
corresponding to the formed number.

Example 1: Deleting segment number 3

	Ctrl + D 	# Start segment deletion mode
	Ctrl + 3	# Concatenate number 3
	Ctrl + D	# Exit segment deletion mode

Example 2: Deleting segment number 76

	Ctrl + D 	# Start segment deletion mode
	Ctrl + 7	# Concatenate number 7
	Ctrl + 6	# Concatenate number 6
	Ctrl + D	# Exit segment deletion mode

**Preview concatenation.**
To preview how the segment concatenation will look like, press `Ctrl + P`
to enter the preview mode.   In this mode, the player will jump between
segments.  To exit from the preview mode, press `Ctrl + P` again.

**Write concat file.**
To write the `concat.txt` file, to be used by ffmpeg, press `Ctrl + W`.
It's important that there are at least one segment, otherwise a blank
file will be created.


## Notes

* This script prevents the mpv player from closing when the video ends,
  so that the segments don't get lost.  Keep this in mind if there's the
  option `keep-open=no` in the current config file.

* This script will also silence the terminal, so the script messages
  can be seen more clearly.

* The `concat.txt` file generated by this script is slightly different
  from the one illustrated at the beginning of this `README`.  In
  special, the timestamps are in seconds rather in the `HH:MM:SS.ss`
  form.  Both forms are supported though (but using seconds is more
  precise).


## Log level

Everytime a timestamp is grabbed, a text will appear on the screen
showing the selected time.  When `Ctrl + S` is pressed, besides showing
the segments in the terminal, it will also show on the screen the total
number of cuts (or segments) that were made.  When pressing `Ctrl + W`,
a message will be shown on the screen and the terminal telling that the
`concat.txt` file was written.

**Note:** Every message that appears on the terminal has the log level of 'info'.


## Acknowledgments

* Thanks to [pvpscript](https://github.com/pvpscript) for writing
  [mpv-video-splice](https://github.com/pvpscript/mpv-video-splice),
  on which this script and this README are based.

* Thanks to [unusualpepe](https://github.com/unusualpepe) for writing
  [mpv-multiloop](https://github.com/unusualpepe/mpv-multiloop),
  on which the preview functions are based.
